# Essay-Questions_Taylor

####**1. Why are you interested in programming? What have you done to expose yourself to programming so far?**  
When I began work as an activist in Washington D.C. I quickly learned that the peace movement was extremely fragmented. Grassroots organizing and community building is crucial to social change but often lacks coordination that technology can provide. My experience working with Salsa, Facebook, and Twitter as mobilizing tools didn’t always seem the most effective way to connect groups or intersecting issues. I started to brainstorm how technology could better serve activism. I have written preliminary outlines for tools to use in advocacy work but lack the skills to set these ideas in motion. I later experimented with JavaScript when I built a NationBuilder website for a [Global Day of Action Against Drones] (http://globaldayofaction.nationbuilder.com).  This was my first time managing a website, but I felt confined by NationBuilder’s limitations and my lack of programing knowledge. My interest in programing increased when I returned to school in Boston and my Kenyan professor introduced me to open source projects. I started to research how software has helped better [people’s lives in developing countries] (http://www.theguardian.com/global-development-professionals-network/2015/feb/11/open-data-how-mobile-phones-saved-bananas-from-bacterial-wilt-in-uganda).  Open source tools  are changing the meaning of sharing knowledge and empowering people. I am highly motivated to learn more about software development because of the many opportunities it lends to positive social change.

####**2. What are your professional goals for the next 2 years, the next 5 years?**

My three main passions are social impact management, data collection, and economic development. In the next  2 years I hope to gain a network of social innovators with a strong technical background. My goal is to have the skillset to design, modify, develop and implement applications and components in web design. I would like to work for a company that has a fast-paced technical environment and provides exposure of how software development is related to the business sector. The more I understand how a successful business runs the better I will be able to support a social enterprise with my programing abilities. 
In five years I hope to fulfill a role at an organization that  contributes to a social project in a meaningful way. Ideally, I would have enough experience to influence key areas of important new projects. My dream would be to work for an organization such as PATH or  One Acre Fund. I  believe programing can be found in every aspect of our culture and I am excited by the opportunities to change and combine paths as a software developer. 

####**3. Tell us about a time you made a mistake that you learned a lot from. If you encountered the situation again, what would you do differently?**

In the fall of 2014 I attended an  event with CODEPINK in Washington DC to interrupt a United Nations diplomat. This particular diplomat had continually protected the Israeli government from investigations of human rights violations in Gaza. However, this individual had also accomplished great achievements in promoting women and LGBT rights and campaigning against human trafficking. As someone who wants to stand up against political hypocrisy I suddenly felt as though I was in a very polarizing situation. I realized that reducing the diplomat to just their views on Palestine was counterproductive. Although the interruption received a great amount of positive attention I felt it was disrespectful and poorly organized. We were not prepared for the amount of press and the action seemed more about our egos as activists than the actual peace movement. This was a big moment for me.  If I was in the situation again I would have better prepared to answer difficult questions about our demonstration strategy. I would have also changed our messaging to be more positive and less hostile to the diplomat.  Overall, I learned that I want to be bold in different ways and that I prefer to invest my time in other methods of social change. 

####**4. Have you taught yourself anything before? Describe what you learned and how you approached it.**

 In my first film class my final project was to write, edit, and produce a five minute documentary. This project required me to teach myself how to use the film editing program, Avid. Through tutorial videos and completing tutorial exercises I was able to learn shortcuts and the basic tools of the software. This was my first experience using a non-linear editor and at times there was a steep learning curve. I realized that if I was going to become a decent editor in a small amount of time I needed to practice on my own material. In my spare time I began using my school’s  P2 HPX-170 camera  and taking shots of the city. I was more engaged experimenting on my own footage than simply using downloaded practice files. I learned that in order to teach myself new difficult material I prefer to be motivated by an actual project. Furthermore, it was helpful to discuss my successes and failures with one of my classmates who was more experienced with film editing. This allowed me to analyze my own learning and thinking processes. 

